Dr T N Khoushou defines the environment as the interconnected system of natural and human-made elements that influence life and require balanced ecological and developmental practices for sustainability.
<as per class> sum total of all conditions and influences that affect the development and life of all organisms

The United Council for Environment Policy (UCEP) totality of all living and non-living things, including the air, water, soil, and ecosystems, and the interactions between them that sustain life on Earth.
<as per class> Mans total environmental system includes not only biosphere, his interrelationshio with natural and man made surroundings 

section 2A  Environment Protection Act 1986 
Section 2(a) of the Environment Protection Act, 1986 defines "environment" as including water, air, and land, and the interrelationship that exists among these elements, along with human beings, other living creatures, plants, microorganisms, and property

According to Encyclopedia Britannica, the environment refers to the sum of all external conditions and influences affecting the life, development, and survival of organisms, including physical, chemical, and biological factors.

classical literature like vedas, vedangas, smritis,commentories, digests, epics like Ramayana and Mahabaratha, arthashastra, poetries talked abou Environment

Rigveda talks about there should be harmonious relationship/coexistence between humans with the environment  where welfare of each depends on the other.

Yajurveda talks about respecting every forms of life. living as well as non living
consumption to be based on "Thyaga:..
Extreme exploitation of natural resources born on greed and profits to be avoided

 one's duty is to be performed and to avoid conflicts

kautilya's arthashastra , restraint over collections and consumption. 
Proper management of natural resources
welfare of state and natural resources
knowledge of agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, water resources, forestry, mining 
sustainable development and production polices to be followed by the state

Biotic community - Assemblage of species of plants, animals inhabiting a common area and having effects on each other.
Interdependence of living and non living that is plans, animals, lakes, soil etc make eco system.

combinations of eco systems as compared to large ecosystems (similar characters arrangement of vegetation are known as biome
arctic tundra, grasslands, praries, deserts, conifers, tropical forests, fresh water and marine biome

** To edit below

Ecology comes from Greek work oikos which means house home dwelling
logos -> study of house

Ecology is the branch of biology that studies the relationships between living organisms and their interactions with the environment, including both biotic (living) and abiotic (non-living) components.
<extra>... It explores how organisms adapt to their surroundings, how they interact with one another, and how energy and nutrients flow through ecosystems.


The United Council for Environment Policy defines ecology as the study of the relationships between living organisms and their interactions with the environment, encompassing both biotic and abiotic factors.

Present day definition -> Ecology is the study of biotic(living) and abiotic(non living) component of natures. Their interrationship and orderly manner in which they function to give rise to a specific system. 

All living organisms and their environment are mutually reactive affecting each other in vaios stages
Animal population, flora and vegetation are interdependent .. mutually reactive

versus seeds

selecting organisms for growth from so many forms as its one or the other factors becomes critical stage of the lifecyle of the species.

The species puts maintain uniformity in structure, function , reproduction, growth by preservation of its genetic code..

Environment is modified by organisms and this explains growth reproduction death decay etc

The dynamic environment and organisms make way for the development of different kinds of organisms thorugh a process known as succession. This process both enroll the organism get adjusted in the new environment. This final stage is calld climax

under similar climatic conditions, there were simultaneously developed more than one community. Some waiting to climax stages and others under different stages of sustainance.
This complex of several communities in area.. Different kinds of plants animals , changes in common climate is called a biome

 
new concept of ecology
when both biotic and abiotic consider the basic structural and functional unit of nature or.....

There exists various degrees of positives , negatives and neutral intersactions amond organisms at various steps with various degree of success..

Energy is the brightest product of ecosystem . Energy is purely directo=onal and non cyclic


the clinic component of ecosystem, biogeography , chemical....

The minimal and maximal levels of tolerance for all ecological factors of species vary seasonally , geographically and according to the age of thepopulation..

Under natural condtions different kinds of population under succession .
The process involve notonly changes to species composition nut also changes physical environment of a community.
The stabilized state is climax

test version 12